I'm gonna read you an email that I just
sent to Charles Marlow at the vegan
cheetah today it's an email I thought I
would never write it's an email that I
composed in response to cheetah saying
not to me in particular not to anyone in
particular in the last video that he
posted that he has regrets that he
realizes he's done wrong that he
realizes he's harmed other people and
that basically he looks back on his own
content and he's aware that a lot of it
is garbage I appreciate that and the
reality is as you're gonna see in this
message all along my perspective on
cheetahs content has been different from
maybe anyone else in the audience
because I didn't just know that he was
lying I knew that he knew that he was
lying and that's a very different thing
a lot of people are on the internet
playing this game don't have vendor
control don't know when they're lying
don't know when they're defaming
somebody and cheetah does he does and he
did and that's why I think he's capable
of apologizing for it turning a bad
situation to a pause the situation and
moving on now will he I doubt it
the question is what do I do for my part
in my position and what would I want
other people to do if our positions were
reversed guys that's not a hard question
to ask yourself with any of these
debates or any of these conflicts with
people who left at their chance and it
still happens now leaping at their
chance to show that they're morally
superior to me to snub me to escalate
some little conflict into something much
more vile than it needs to be ask
yourself what if one of them had written
me an email as nice as the email vote to
read you that I just sent a vegan
cheetah
now again cheetah has defamed me in a
very serious way he's defamed me in
terms of alleging that I'm engaged in
financial fraud you know that I'm a scam
artist he's made allegations about my
personal life and my sex life more times
than I can count
he's alleged that I'm facing criminal
charges
a wife beater and so on and yet this is
what I said when I wrote to him I don't
know just an hour ago earlier today
Charles I did see your generalized
apology or statement of regret in your
most recent video you know also that I
would have difficulty hating you for the
things you said and did against me in
the last six months or so because I know
how fake it was I know that you never
believe the lies you told whereas to be
honest there are people on YouTube who
actually believe this stuff you know
also that I was being sincere when I
said that I don't think you're nearly as
stupid as the people sitting next to you
on the same bench when you're sitting
next to Nina and Randa or you're sitting
next to Ryan from happy healthy vegan
you're playing dumb but they're really
dumb I neither meant that as flattery
nor as an insult but just as a statement
of fact do you want to patch it up we
could talk via Skype and not even
mention past conflict not even mention
veganism you can just talk to me like a
human being and express the same sort of
generalized regret for the harm you've
done and it will go a long way towards
humanizing you for your audience it
doesn't cost you anything to say that
you're sorry
everyone knows for example that you've
just made up the story about Anna
Scanlon out of thin air everyone knows
you were just trying to entertain your
audience and everyone knows that you now
want to move on and make videos about
how happy you are with your girlfriend
etc instead of doing hatchet jobs
against other vegans even if you don't
apologize if we just record record you
talking to me like a normal human being
not pretending to be this fictional
character the vegan cheetah talking to
me in a sensitive way expressing concern
and interest about any of these issues
but for example about the progress of my
own divorce case people will to some
extent stop hating you for being such a
cartoon character
the reality is Charles there have never
been criminal charges against me
not for wife-beating and not for
anything else and instead there are now
criminal charges against my ex-wife as
part and parcel of the divorce
that's not drama that's not scandal and
that's not something that would be
exciting to present to your audience in
a shocking way it's just human reality
the two friends could talk about with
some level of sympathy and understanding
honesty is the only currency we've got
sharing that kind of real talk is the
only thing that earns your audience's
loyalty and interest on YouTube end of
quote end of email um so look what is
the point the point is to do good in
whatever way you can in this life
sending that email Charles may never
reply he doesn't have to reply but it's
me reaching out to him in a positive and
constructive way at a time when it could
do some good for me to reach out to him
if I send him an email just calling him
an idiot that's not gonna do any harm
but it's not gonna do any good either
now have I ever received an email like
that from someone willing to talk and
willing to listen have I received an
email like that from Jeff Nelson never
from unnatural vegan never I mean I'm
I'm thinking the most respectable have I
have received a email like that from
Martin Lewis or you know the the various
people who are more like muckrakers have
I have received email that from
durianrider freely never absolutely
nobody at any level in this game has
ever sent me an email remotely
resembling that neither out of curiosity
nor expressing support or what-have-you
and you know there's a lot of
misconceptions about me
partly because I openly say to people
look I'm not a nice guy
I'm not playing by these nice guy rules
I'm not trying to convince my audience
that I'm a nice guy I'm not trying to
flatter people and say that their
content is good when I think it's
garbage I'm not trying to flatter people
and say that they are brilliant
when I
they're idiots there are a lot of phony
games
I don't play as part of keeping it real
on the other hand of course I can
recognize when a conflict between two
people is fundamentally shallow and
could be easily resolved and even though
my conflict with cheetah is very obvious
it's out in the open everyone can see
what the conflict is it's also true that
it is shallow and could be easily
resolved now by contrast I think the
conflict between me and unnatural vegan
for many people it's not obvious many
people write to me and say like it took
them six months to figure out what the
conflict you mean an actual thinking
even was you know no shade I mean I
understand it's a little more
ideologically complex but it's
interesting I mean by contrast the
conflict between me and a natural vegan
it's very profound it's very deep I
don't think it ever could be resolved
and she's also somebody who's never been
willing she has never been willing to
listen to criticism it's always such an
irony she says that about me but it's
really true of her she's never been
willing to debate the underlying issues
she's never been willing to apologize
for anything admit that she's wrong and
that is a difference that runs so deep
it gets right down to the core question
of what is veganism what is the future
of the movement and so on that's not
what this video is about I'm just
presenting as a contrast knowing Charles
as I do and knowing even the new
direction he wants to take in his
channel he's been through several
different metamorphosis on that channel
it is really not hard for me to imagine
him just saying yes all of these lies he
made up out of thin air of him just
saying in a general sense that he
regrets hurting people lying to people
doing what he did back when he was in a
crazed rush to entertain his audience
since were four hours a day live
streaming it's not hard for me to see
him saying that he's sorry when it costs
him nothing to say that he's sorry and
it gains him everything right not hard
to to imagine that at all
[Music]
in my recent video about my political
position you know where I had this video
called why I am NOT left-wing one of the
main things I try to emphasize there was
having the humility and pragmatism to
look at a situation and not see it in
terms of left versus right or the poor
versus the rich or simple ideological
categories to not see it in terms of
flags but to look at it in an analytical
way and say what can I do to make this
situation better and you know to answer
that question whether it's about
Cambodia or Colombia or northern
Saskatchewan and Canada it takes
humility and a very strange form of
engagement of research to figure out
what can I do as a powerless individual
what can me and my group of friends do
to actually make this situation better
hey the answer may be nothing the mansur
may be incredibly small and incredibly
shallow but yeah when I look at these
situations I'm not looking at them in
terms of right and wrong even I am
looking at them from the pragmatic
perspective of what can I do to make
things better there's no question that
she does the wrong there's already a
video on this channel called you know my
final judgment on fee conchita where I'm
absolutely laying into him and letting
him know everything he does wrong others
I've not I've not stopped short of
judgment my point is not at all judgy
not lest you be judged judge go ahead
make the judgment but judgment isn't an
end in itself right
character assassination is not an end in
itself here's my judgment here's what
the situation is now what can I do to
make it better so yeah even somebody
like cheetah and I've done this in the
past other people Joe best is another
great example Joe best did so many
unforgivable things to me
he defamed me so many times and I kept
reaching out to him positively again and
again
why yes on the one hand exactly what
I've just said I can pass judgment on
somebody but then the next question is
what do we do now how do I assume it
situation better and beyond that what
I'm doing on this channel is not chasing
views is not chasing subscribers on a
profound level I'm really not a Fame
[ __ ] for me this really is about the
future of the movement and when it's
about the future of the movement then
even when you're looking across across
the table you're looking across the
table at someone you may despise whether
that's you know Joe best or Joe vegan or
Ryan from a BLT vegan is maybe someone
you have such profound differences with
that you feel no kinship with them to
say the least or maybe someone who's
hurt you or insulted you or defamed you
it's not about me all right
it's about the movement so what am I
gonna do next where am I gonna go from
here how can we build something positive
starting right now and that's also why
by the way I'm constantly reaching out
to people who are not famous who do not
have more subscribers to me I'm not out
here famewhoring I'm very happy to bring
onto the channel someone like Steven
fate also known as Steven fight this
lawyer I just uploaded another podcast
with because I'm not looking at people
thinking how can this help my channel
grow how can I get another 5,000 viewers
or another 5,000 subscribers I'm
actually looking these people thinking
who can make a positive difference in
organizing real activism in doing
something positive for the movement in
the next five years and if freely phoned
me up and wanted to have a conversation
on the channel I'd do it I'd have just
out of kinship with my fellow
vegans you know it's totally
but when I look ahead to the next five
years who do I think really matters and
it's really gonna make a decisive
difference is it freely or is it
somebody with a degree in law doing
basically lobbying for ecological causes
in Washington DC on some level all of
you know the answer are we talking about
chasing Fame are we talking about
building foundations are we talking
about dead ended drama just for the sake
of people's ego or are we talking about
the future of the movement you know what
I'm talking about but on the other hand
vegan drama is a part of my life these
are people I know these are people I
care about
these are people who absolutely shape
the way I use YouTube and they're
probably the reason why half the people
watching this video discover my channel
in the first place what can I say I'm a
snob but I'm not so much of a snob that
I would ignore what I saw a cheetah
saying in that most recent video Thesz I
see a guy who's sitting there he knows
that he's told lies he knows these
defame people he knows that what he's
been doing has been mean-spirited and
malicious and destructive for so many
months now and he knows he's better than
that and he wants to move on and he
wants to make better content and I'm
sure at bottom that's motivated of the
fact that he has a new girlfriend and a
new apartment he just feels he's moving
on to something better in his life it's
how it goes for so many of us I'm a snob
but I'm not so much of a snob that I
would see that and just turn up my nose
and ignore it or just see that and sneer
and think serves you right